[Music]
seven reasons why Nordic people are
considered to be the happiest folk in
the world did you know that Nordic
countries top the list of the world's
happiest people year after year
apparently neither the harsh climate nor
the rare sunny days can bring
Scandinavians down but what is it about
their philosophy of life that makes them
so content and happy and can it change
the way we see the world too
let's find out the key elements of
Nordic happiness together but before you
redefine the true meaning of being happy
don't forget to click Subscribe and turn
on this notification bell now you won't
miss any of the videos and updates that
arrive daily from the bright side of
life but enough chitchat
let's reveal those Scandinavian secrets
number 7c soup or inner peace and
strength in Finnish back in 2017 the
times put the Finnish concept of Sisu on
the list of key trends that come from
Scandinavia
unfortunately this word cannot be
accurately translated into English but
its meaning is very close to the phrase
if something needs to be done it will be
done
Sisu stands for resilience and courage
teaching you the art of giving up
unnecessary words and excessive emotions
according to The Times if you want to
embrace the true spirit of Sisu you
should try to say certain words without
making any facial expressions true it
won't be easy but it'll definitely open
some new doors in your mind however the
whole point of Sisu isn't about how you
talk rather how you speak only about the
case in hand the Sisu lifestyle has less
meaningless chatter complaints and
showing off quite refreshing don't you
think no wonder this philosophy helps
the Finns appreciate social equality and
stay so calm persistent and
self-sufficient
[Music]
number six lag off or how much a Swedish
person needs in Sweden Lagaan is a
special skill necessary for living a
balanced life this concept of living can
be translated as just enough not too
much or too little if you look closely
you can find lag on everywhere in
Swedish society economics business
management and other spheres of life
however in one's personal life
Lagaan begins only when you put
everything in your life in order and
keep it under control of course it takes
a huge amount of work and determination
but we all know that a journey of a
thousand miles begins with a single step
right in Toru Vil's book glug 'el the
Scandinavian happiness drinking tea in
your pajamas he mentions a very
meaningful Lagaan parable it goes like
this one day an old cat met a kitten who
was chasing his own tail and running and
jumping around in circles he asked the
little one what he was doing the kitten
replied I was told that my tail is my
happiness so I'm just trying to catch my
happiness the old cat smiled and said
you know when I was young I was told the
same thing I spent days and days trying
to catch it I was exhausted I was in
despair so I decided to quit and just
move on with my life and suddenly I
noticed something what did you notice as
the kitten impatiently I discovered that
my tail was there all along following me
and that's exactly what lagom is so to
become lagom happy Toru Ville recommends
keeping your income and spending in
balance cutting down on your energy and
water consumption reducing the amount of
garbage and reusing old things instead
of buying new ones so what are you
waiting for
start your journey toward light on today
this level of happiness is definitely
worth the effort number five Albus good
or the danish way to love your job the
most well-known concept of happiness for
danish people is called Arbus good to
put it simply it's the ability to enjoy
what you do for a living
maybe that's why nordic countries always
top the list of the most satisfied
employees in the world as per a yearly
study conducted by the market
intelligence and employer branding
company universim global we wonder is
there a list the Scandinavians can't top
but in all seriousness to get the
concept of Arbus good you should answer
one simple question why are you working
at your current job do you try to find
the benefits in your work get along with
your colleagues and supervisors perform
your duties the best way you can and
improve your skills if the thought of
all this doesn't make you excited one
little bit then it's time to change your
job after all according to the Danes
a person is truly happy when they feel
excited both to go to work and to go
home in the evening don't waste time on
something that doesn't make you happy
don't forget that you only have one life
number for free Lutz live or loving
mother nature the Norwegian way the
philosophy of free lifts live is all
about spending time alone with nature in
order to return to one's true self
while spending time outdoors your main
task is to set yourself free from the
general rush and routine
there is only you a backpack on your
shoulders and mother nature if you want
to add some physical activity into the
mix go for it
you can hike Wood chop or do anything
else that helps you take your mind off
all your problems by the way if you
really want to incorporate the free
loops live philosophy into your life
here's some advice from native
Norwegians first of all don't take
so many selfies for social media that
erases the whole point of free lifts
live your job is to be in the moment so
climb that hill or take that walk and
keep the experience for yourself
secondly instead of mindlessly watching
TV or browsing the Internet try filling
your pockets with chocolate and candy
and going for a long walk
it'll be way more productive for your
inner harmony number three gazelle a
kite or enjoying closeness in the Dutch
way yes we know that the Netherlands
isn't part of Scandinavia but we can't
leave this amazing Dutch concept of
happiness out of the picture the Dutch
believe that happiness is basically
synonymous with unity with their loved
ones
seems fair right well the time spent in
the warm company of people who get you
and support you no matter what can be
described using just one word gazelle a
kite the word gazelle means companion or
old friend and gazelle ik translates to
cozy pleasant and friendly even Dutch
proverbs contain the gazelle a kite
belief walking with a friend in the dark
is better than walking alone in the
light don't walk behind me I may not
lead don't walk in front of me I may not
follow just walk beside me and be my
friend you have to remember that
precious places and things that bring
back vivid memories or memorable
long-awaited meetings with dear friends
are all gazelle ik - so there's only one
rule for Dutch happiness the more
gazelle a kite there is in your life the
happier you'll be
number two kalsa recon it or a new way
of relaxation from the fence
now that we know about SI su it's time
to learn about another great concept
from Finland called Casa reckoning and
it certainly wins the medal for the
coolest one on our list kal sorry Connie
it can be translated as pants drunk and
basically means spending time at home
alone in your underwear enjoying a drink
[Music]
it's all in the word itself kal siren is
a type of underwear and Canada means a
drink this term became very popular
thanks to Finland's ministry for Foreign
Affairs who came up with the whole
country themed emoji list so next time
you want to skip a boring event try the
Finnish way of relaxation and go full
kiss I recounted in the book
pants drunk cow sorry Canada the Finnish
path to relaxation miss Koran tenon
explains that in the Nordic palliative
survival strategies the Finns rely on
Kesari cannon
it doesn't demand over-the-top
arrangements and it pretty much the
antithesis of posing performing or
pretense
kisara cannon is completely real the
Dutch actually have a similar concept
called Nixon it's the ability to relax
and do nothing without feeling guilty
about it Nixon can become a real
lifesaver for people who struggle with
multiple tasks at work and suffer from
inevitable stress if you're one of them
choose the concept you like more and
wing it
number one glue gabador or Icelandic
optimism the people in Iceland have
their own unique word for happiness and
it's glue gabador this Icelandic term
defines that amazing feeling when you
sit by the window with a hot cup of
coffee or tea enjoying the weather from
indoors but not wanting to go outside to
appreciate it it's more typical for
Nordic countries of course considering
their weather conditions but we guess
it's safe to say that we all feel quite
happy in these moments right if you want
to experience glue gaved or yourself all
you need is the appropriate weather a
cozy sweater a cup of hot chocolate and
a window they say that Google a door can
help your mind generate the most
brilliant thoughts and ideas ever so why
not try it
now that we've discussed everything
which one of these concepts of happiness
did you like the most and do you have
any similar rules of happiness in your
country tell us in the comments below
don't forget to hit the like button and
share this video with your friends and
family to brighten up their day if you
want to see more fun and positive videos
like this subscribe to our Channel and
join us on the bright side of life
that's all for now
but we'll see you soon
[Applause]
[Music]